Adding new state selectors (#3596)
dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/reference/node-selection/methods.md

</VersionBlock>

> `state:new`: There is no node with the same `unique_id` in the comparison manifest.

Author: ```suggestion
`state:new`: There is no node with the same `unique_id` in the comparison manifest
```

Remember that `state:modified` includes _all_ of the criteria above, as well as some extra resource-specific criteria, such as modifying a source's `freshness` or `quoting` rules or an exposure's `maturity` property. (View the source code for the full set of checks used when comparing [sources](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-core/blob/9e796671dd55d4781284d36c035d1db19641cd80/core/dbt/contracts/graph/parsed.py#L660-L681), [exposures](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-core/blob/9e796671dd55d4781284d36c035d1db19641cd80/core/dbt/contracts/graph/parsed.py#L768-L783), and [executable nodes](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-core/blob/9e796671dd55d4781284d36c035d1db19641cd80/core/dbt/contracts/graph/parsed.py#L319-L330).)

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.6">

There are two additional `state` selectors that complement `state:new` and `state:modified` by representing the inverse of those functions:

> - `state:old`: a node with the same `unique_id` exists in the comparison manifest

Author: ```suggestion
- `state:old` &mdash; a node with the same `unique_id` exists in the comparison manifest
```

> - `state:old` &mdash; a node with the same `unique_id` exists in the comparison manifest

Author: ```suggestion
- `state:old` &mdash; A node with the same `unique_id` exists in the comparison manifest
```

> - `state:unmodified`: All existing nodes with no changes 

Author: ```suggestion
- `state:unmodified` &mdash; All existing nodes with no changes 
```

> The selectors can help you shorten run times by excluding unchanged nodes. Currently, no subselectors are available at this time, but that may change as use cases evolve. 

Author: ```suggestion
These selectors can help you shorten run times by excluding unchanged nodes. Currently, no subselectors are available at this time, but that may change as use cases evolve. 
```

> These selectors can help you shorten run times by excluding unchanged nodes. Currently, no subselectors are available at this time, but that may change as use cases evolve. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These selectors can help you shorten run times by excluding unchanged nodes. Currently, no subselectors are available at this time, but that might change as use cases evolve. 
```

> The benefits for these selectors are primarily to exclude unchanged nodes to shorten run times. There are no subselectors available, but that may change as use cases evolve. 

Author: ```suggestion
The primary benefit of these selectors is to exclude unchanged nodes to shorten run times. No subselectors are available at this time, but that may change as use cases evolve. 
```

> The primary benefit of these selectors is to exclude unchanged nodes to shorten run times. No subselectors are available at this time, but that may change as use cases evolve. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These selectors can help you shorten run times by excluding unchanged nodes. Currently, no subselectors are available at this time. 
```

> The primary benefit of these selectors is to exclude unchanged nodes to shorten run times. No subselectors are available at this time, but that may change as use cases evolve. 

Author: ```suggestion
The selectors can help you shorten run times by excluding unchanged nodes. Currently, no subselectors are available at this time, but that may change as use cases evolve. 
```
